Packer creation (#13)
vk-cs/docs-public: docs/en/main/base/iaas/vm-images/packer/packer.md

## Preparing to work with Packer

* [Install](https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/tutorials/docker-get-started/get-started-install-cli) Packer.
* [Install](../../../../additionals/account/project/cli/setup/) OpenStack client.
* [Authorize](../../../../additionals/account/project/cli/authorization/) CLI client.

## Image configuration preparation

Create a file with any name (for example, nginx.pkr.hcl) and copy this configuration:

```hcl
variable "image_tag" {
  type = string
  default = "1.0.0"
}

source "openstack" "nginx" {
  source_image_filter {
    filters {
      name = "Ubuntu-22.04-202208"
    }
    most_recent = true
  }

  flavor                  = "<flavor_name>"
  ssh_username            = "ubuntu"
  security_groups         = ["default", "ssh+www"]
  volume_size             = 10
  config_drive            = "true"
  use_blockstorage_volume = "true"
  networks                = ["<network_ID>"]

  image_name = "nginx-${var.image_tag}"
}

build {
  sources = ["source.openstack.nginx"]

  provisioner "shell" {
    inline = [
      "sudo apt-get update -y",
      "sudo apt-get install nginx -y"
    ]
  }
}
```

> In the parameter network_ID set subnet's ID which created virtual machine will be connected to. You can find subnet ID with web interface in Virtual networks → Networks or via Openstack CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the parameter `network_ID` set subnet's ID which the created virtual machine will be connected. You can find subnet IDs in your account in **Virtual networks → Networks** section or via Openstack CLI:
```

```bash
openstack network list
```

> In the parameter flavor_name set flavor's name with which virtual machine will be created. You can find flavor's name in virtual machine creation wizard or via Openstack CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the parameter `flavor_name` set flavor's name with which the virtual machine will be created. You can find flavor's name in the virtual machine creation wizard or via Openstack CLI:
```

```bash
openstack flavor list
```

> ## Image creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create image
```

To create image run this command:

```bash
packer build nginx.pkr.hcl
```

> ## Created image check

Reviewer: Как вариант:

## Checking the created image

> Created image can be seen in web interface in Cloud computing → Images or in OpenStack CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find created image in your account in **Cloud computing → Images** section or in OpenStack CLI:
```

```bash
openstack image list
```

> ## Image deletion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Delete image
```

> Created image could be deleted [delete](../delete-image/) with user interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Created image could be deleted [delete](../delete-image/) with user interface.

```
